Reading #8

### When is Basic Authorization used vs. Bearer Authorization?\

Basic: You would use basic if the User needs to access the API with username/password access credentials only.\

Bearer: You would need to use Bearer if the user is making a request to the API that requires specific access controls. Making a token check to the User and checking access controls before allowing access to said specific API request.\

### What does the JSON Web Token package do?\

Its a unique web signature used to varify user authentication.

-> JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed. JWTs can be signed using a secret (with the HMAC algorithm) or a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA.\

### What considerations should we make when creating and storing a SECRET?\

-> Hardcoded Vs. Encoded Vs. .env storage methods
->

Definitions:
encryption: Encryption is the method by which information is converted into secret code that hides the information's true meaning. The science of encrypting and decrypting information is called cryptography.  
token: JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed. JWTs can be signed using a secret (with the HMAC algorithm) or a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA.\  
bearer: Bearer authentication (also called token authentication) is an HTTP authentication scheme that involves security tokens called bearer tokens. The name “Bearer authentication” can be understood as “give access to the bearer of this token.” The bearer token is a cryptic string, usually generated by the server in response to a login request. The client must send this token in the Authorization header when making requests to protected resources: -> (Taken from swagger.io)/  
secret: Digital Authentication Credential.
JSON Web Token: JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed. JWTs can be signed using a secret (with the HMAC algorithm) or a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA.\ (Taken from jwt.io)/

sources:
https://jwt.io/introduction\  
https://community.mega.com/t5/REST-API/Basic-Auth-vs-Bearer-Token/td-p/23476\  
https://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/definition/encryption  
https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/bearer-authentication/
